README.md, before:

# Question Classifier 2003 Reboot

## STATUS: IN PROGRESS/NOT FUNCTIONAL

This code is a reimplementation of [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html) written in `tcl`.

Ideas from this work have been [used recently but within a machine learning framework](https://olney.ai/category/2018/11/05/kellyer.html).

The history of this code is somewhat unfortunate, as this was pre-PhD code with poor development organization. 
So it is rather difficult for me to say that this code would replicate the [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html).
The primary reasons are:

- I'm not 100% sure if I even found the correct original `tcl` code
- The code has been translated from `tcl` native regex to `f#`
- The original code used the [Brill Tagger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brill_tagger) as a preprocessing step, and I have replaced that with [a javascript implementation](https://github.com/NaturalNode/natural) that may perform differently, affecting my program's results.

All that being said, please cite the [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html) when using this code but also please state that it is a reimplementation. 


------------------------------

## Requirements

* [dotnet SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core) 2.1 or higher
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org) with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
* An F# editor like Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code with [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) or [JetBrains Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/).

## Building and running the app

* Install JS dependencies: `npm install`
* Install .NET dependencies: `mono .paket/paket.exe install`
* Start Webpack dev server: `npx webpack-dev-server` or `npm start`
* After the first compilation is finished, in your browser open: http://localhost:8080/

Any modification you do to the F# code will be reflected in the web page after saving.

## Building and running the tests

* Build: `npm pretest`
* Run: `npm test`

## Project structure

### npm/yarn

JS dependencies are declared in `package.json`, while `package-lock.json` is a lock file automatically generated.

### paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) 

> Paket is a dependency manager for .NET and mono projects, which is designed to work well with NuGet packages and also enables referencing files directly from Git repositories or any HTTP resource. It enables precise and predictable control over what packages the projects within your application reference.

.NET dependencies are declared in `paket.dependencies`. The `src/paket.references` lists the libraries actually used in the project. Since you can have several F# projects, we could have different custom `.paket` files for each project.

Last but not least, in the `.fsproj` file you can find a new node: `	<Import Project="..\.paket\Paket.Restore.targets" />` which just tells the compiler to look for the referenced libraries information from the `.paket/Paket.Restore.targets` file.

### Fable-splitter

[Fable-splitter]() is a standalone tool which outputs separated files instead of a single bundle. Here all the js files are put into the `build`  dir. And the main entry point is our `App.js` file.

### Webpack

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org) is a JS bundler with extensions, like a static dev server that enables hot reloading on code changes. Fable interacts with Webpack through the `fable-loader`. Configuration for Webpack is defined in the `webpack.config.js` file. Note this sample only includes basic Webpack configuration for development mode, if you want to see a more comprehensive configuration check the [Fable webpack-config-template](https://github.com/fable-compiler/webpack-config-template/blob/master/webpack.config.js).

### Web assets

The `index.html` file and other assets like an icon can be found in the `public` folder.

Commit message:

achieved performance parity with original code in tests

README.md, after:

# Question Classifier 2003 Reboot

## STATUS: IN PROGRESS/NOT FUNCTIONAL

This code is a reimplementation of [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html) written in `tcl`.
The goal here is not to improve upon that work but to get as reasonably close to it as possible. 
Any improvements will appear in other repositories.

Ideas from this work have been [used recently but within a machine learning framework](https://olney.ai/category/2018/11/05/kellyer.html).

The history of this code is somewhat unfortunate, as this was pre-PhD code with poor development organization. 
So it is rather difficult for me to say that this code would replicate the [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html).
The primary reasons are:

- I'm not 100% sure if I even found the correct original `tcl` code
- The code has been translated from `tcl` native regex to `f#`
- The original code used the [Brill Tagger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brill_tagger) as a preprocessing step, and I have replaced that with [a javascript implementation](https://github.com/NaturalNode/natural) that may perform differently, affecting my program's results.

Some tests have been added that compare performance of the `tcl` code I found to this reimplementation, for comparison.

All that being said, please cite the [work from 2003](https://olney.ai/category/2003/01/01/Olney-A-Louwerse-M-Mathews-E-M.html) when using this code but also please state that it is a reimplementation. 

------------------------------

## Requirements

* [dotnet SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core) 2.1 or higher
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org) with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
* An F# editor like Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code with [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) or [JetBrains Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/).

## Building and running the app

* Install JS dependencies: `npm install`
* Install .NET dependencies: `mono .paket/paket.exe install`
* Start Webpack dev server: `npx webpack-dev-server` or `npm start`
* After the first compilation is finished, in your browser open: http://localhost:8080/

Any modification you do to the F# code will be reflected in the web page after saving.

## Building and running the tests

* Build: `npm pretest`
* Run: `npm test`

## Project structure

### npm/yarn

JS dependencies are declared in `package.json`, while `package-lock.json` is a lock file automatically generated.

### paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) 

> Paket is a dependency manager for .NET and mono projects, which is designed to work well with NuGet packages and also enables referencing files directly from Git repositories or any HTTP resource. It enables precise and predictable control over what packages the projects within your application reference.

.NET dependencies are declared in `paket.dependencies`. The `src/paket.references` lists the libraries actually used in the project. Since you can have several F# projects, we could have different custom `.paket` files for each project.

Last but not least, in the `.fsproj` file you can find a new node: `	<Import Project="..\.paket\Paket.Restore.targets" />` which just tells the compiler to look for the referenced libraries information from the `.paket/Paket.Restore.targets` file.

### Fable-splitter

[Fable-splitter]() is a standalone tool which outputs separated files instead of a single bundle. Here all the js files are put into the `build`  dir. And the main entry point is our `App.js` file.

### Webpack

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org) is a JS bundler with extensions, like a static dev server that enables hot reloading on code changes. Fable interacts with Webpack through the `fable-loader`. Configuration for Webpack is defined in the `webpack.config.js` file. Note this sample only includes basic Webpack configuration for development mode, if you want to see a more comprehensive configuration check the [Fable webpack-config-template](https://github.com/fable-compiler/webpack-config-template/blob/master/webpack.config.js).

### Web assets

The `index.html` file and other assets like an icon can be found in the `public` folder.
